1. Introduction
    1.1. Problem Statement:
        Explain the need for a system to automate network administration evaluations.
        Discuss limitations in current tools, such as the reliance on manual evaluation and the lack of support for multi-vendor environments.
    1.2. Objectives:
        Develop an automated environment for evaluating network administration exercises.
        Integrate a back-end service capable of communicating with various components.
        Enable scalable and efficient evaluation of exercises.
    1.3. Document Structure: Overview of dissertation chapters.
2. Background 
    2.1. Overview of Used Technologies
        Virtualization
            Emulation
            Simulation
        GNS3
        Linux 
	(why? Linux, may be a pillar of the project right now, but that isn’t necessarily true for the future)
        ProxmoxVE
        LDAP
    2.2. Virtualized Lab Environments:
        Benefits of hosting virtual machines for usage with GNS3 on Proxmox
    2.3. Web Frameworks for API-Based Systems:
        Comparison of WSGI (Flask) vs. ASGI (FastAPI, Quart).
    2.4. Long running task processing approaches:
        The need for asynchronous processing in API-heavy applications.
        Celery for background jobs.
        FastAPI async as an alternative.
    2.5. System administration automation tools
        Nornir
        Ansible
3. Related Work
    3.1. Programming Evaluation Systems:
        Overview of Mooshak and what it teaches us
    3.2. Network Administration Training Systems:
        Overview of existing tools (e.g. Packet Tracer ) and their limitations
4. System Architecture & Design
    4.1. Functional Use Cases
    4.2. Overview of the system components:
    4.3. Proxmox 
        Why Proxmox? 
            Containers Vs VMs (lack of kvm support for containers)
            Proxmox API limitations 
                lack of task status monitoring
                lack of robustness (trivial to get http 500 errors)
        Proxmox Firewall for VM isolation
            Why? 
                exam mode 
            How? 
                create firewall rules by vm to allow only communication with fastapi host, responsible for doing config validation
            Limitations? 
                e.g an exercise that requires interacting with the internet
    4.4. GNS3
        Why GNS3? Emulating network devices.
        Challenges & Solutions in creating VMs.
        Diagram: Proxmox + GNS3 interaction flow? 

    4.5. High-Level Architecture
        Architecture Diagram. 
        Hardware available and its limitations
        User interface
            Jinja2
            gns3-web 
        API Layer (Initially Flask, later migrated to FastAPI).
            Examples of some of the created endpoints
            FastAPI automatic endpoint documentation generation 
        Virtualization Layer (Proxmox + GNS3).
            Where containers are used (fastapi host)
            Where vms are used (gns3 instances)
            Usage of thin provisioning and linked clones
        Evaluation (Nornir)
            Modules structure
            How configurations are validated
            Snapshot creation for future validation?
        Storage Component
            Database 
                Sqlite
                    SQLModel
            lvm-thin
    4.6. Early prototyping with Flask  and later shift to FastAPI 
        Initial Setup: Flask
            Flask for API
            Lack of complete async support by flask natively (mainly due to WSGI)
            Issues: Blocking I/O, Time consuming.
        Second setup: Flask + Celery
            Exploration of Celery as an option for async tasks.
            Issues: Complexity, overhead.
        Evaluation of Quart (ASGI-compliant Flask)
            Why it was considered (the benefits of being ASGI compliant).
            Problems found: Poorly supported ecosystem with limited confidence in its future, limited adoption.
        Final Decision: FastAPI Migration
            Built-in async support.
            Roughly same performance as celery under high concurrency but with less overhead and complexity.
        Comparison Table: Flask (+  Celery) vs. Quart vs. FastAPI.
5. Implementation
    5.1. Setting Up the Development Environment
        sqlite
        Python
            Celery
            HTTPX
            SQLModel   

            Code snippets where relevant (e.g. interaction with , Proxmox API, GNS3 API)
            Examples of interactions between technologies
        Project Folder Structure (app/, nornir_lib/, proxmox_api/, gns3_api/).
    5.2. API Development
        Exercise Management Endpoints (create, delete, manage exercises).
        VM Handling Endpoints (start, stop, clone, template conversion).
    5.3. Asynchronous Processing with FastAPI
        How API requests are handled asynchronously.
        Differences between Celery Tasks vs async I/O.
            Fully sequential blocking I/O vs celery tasks vs async I/O 
    5.4. GNS3 customization and configuration
        Configuring a GNS3 host vm.
            Installation and configuration of gns3-server
                Instalation of gns3 packages
                Running gns3-server as a daemon
            Necessary changes to gns3 code to allow the use of SPICE
            Importing gns3 project
    5.5. Proxmox API usage
            How VMs are managed via Proxmox API.
6. Testing & Evaluation 
    6.1. Performance Evaluation
        Before vs. After FastAPI Migration
            API Response times.
            Concurrent request handling.
            Resource consumption.
            io-problems
    6.2. Usability Testing
        Showcase full exercise cycle (create, assign, solve, evaluate)
7. Conclusion & Future Work
    7.1. Summary of Contributions
        Automated environment for evaluating network exercises.
        FastAPI migration for performance improvement.
    7.2. Limitations & Challenges
        Potential scaling challenges.
        Potential unseen challenges in ProxmoxVE clusters with more than one node.
        Future enhancements.
    7.3. Future Work
        Front-end improvements for usability and client-side rendering.
        Usability tests with students.
        More sophisticated evaluation criteria for exercises.
        and more...
Appendices
    Code Documentation.
    Configuration files.
    Example JSON requests/responses.
